ContentMigrationBatch#SH5R5 (#7906)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/20things-pageflip/index.md

accomplish today.

<figure>
{% Img src="image/T4FyVKpzu4WKF1kBNvXepbi08t52/o5841WYMvQebTxtGDvU3.png", alt="Book cover and homepage of '20 Things I Learned About Browsers and the Web'", width="500", height="347" %}
<figcaption>Book cover and homepage of "20 Things I Learned About Browsers and the Web" (<a href="http://www.20thingsilearned.com" target="_blank">www.20thingsilearned.com</a>)</figcaption>
</figure>

We decided that the best way to achieve the feeling of a real world
book is to simulate the good parts of the analogue reading experience
while still leveraging the benefits of the digital realm in areas such
as navigation. A lot of effort went into the graphical and interactive
treatment of the reading flow - especially how the pages of the books
flip from one page to another.

## Getting Started

This tutorial will take you through the process of creating your own
page flip effect using the canvas element and plenty of JavaScript. Some
of the rudimentary code, such as variable declarations and event listener
subscription, has been left out of the snippets in this article so remember
to reference the working example.

> Before we get started it's a good idea to [check out the demo](https://www.html5rocks.com/static/demos/20things_pageflip/example/index.html) so that you know what we`re aiming to build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we get started it's a good idea to [check out the demo](https://www.html5rocks.com/static/demos/20things_pageflip/example/index.html) so that you know what we're aiming to build.
```

## Markup

It's always important to remember that what we draw on canvas can't be
indexed by search engines, selected by a visitor or found by in-browser
searches. For that reason, the content we will be working with is put
directly in the DOM and then manipulated by JavaScript if it is available.
The markup required for this is minimal:

```html
<div id='book'>
<canvas id='pageflip-canvas'></canvas>
<div id='pages'>
<section>
    <div> <!-- Any type of contents here --> </div>
</section>

> <!-- More <section>`s here -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- More <section>s here -->
```

if( flips[i].dragging ) {
    // Figure out which page we should navigate to
    if( mouse.x < 0 ) {
    flips[i].target = -1;
    page = Math.min( page + 1, flips.length );
    }
    else {
    flips[i].target = 1;
    page = Math.max( page - 1, 0 );
    }
}

flips[i].dragging = false;
}
}
```

The `mouseMoveHandler` function updates the `mouse` object so that we
are always working towards the most recent cursor location.

In `mouseDownHandler` we start by checking if the mouse was pressed
down on either the left or the right page so that we know which
direction we want to start flipping towards. We also ensure that
another page exists in that direction since we might be on the first
or last page. If a valid flip option is available after these checks,
we set the `dragging` flag of the corresponding flip object to `true`.

Once we reach the `mouseUpHandler` we go through all of the `flips`
and check if any of them were flagged as `dragging` and should now be
released. When a flip is released we set its target value to match
the side it should flip to depending on the current mouse position.
The page number is also update to reflect this navigation.

## Rendering

> Now that most of our logic is in place we`ll go through how to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that most of our logic is in place we'll go through how to
```

render the folding paper onto the canvas element. Most of this happens
inside of the `render()` function, which is called 60 times
per second to update and draw the current state of all active flips.

```js
function render() {
// Reset all pixels in the canvas
context.clearRect( 0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height );

for( var i = 0, len = flips.length; i < len; i++ ) {
var flip = flips[i];

if( flip.dragging ) {
    flip.target = Math.max( Math.min( mouse.x / PAGE_WIDTH, 1 ), -1 );
}

// Ease progress towards the target value
flip.progress += ( flip.target - flip.progress ) * 0.2;

// If the flip is being dragged or is somewhere in the middle
// of the book, render it
if( flip.dragging || Math.abs( flip.progress ) < 0.997 ) {
    drawFlip( flip );
}

}
}
```

Before we start rendering the `flips`, we reset the
canvas by using the `clearRect(x,y,w,h)` method. Clearing the whole canvas
comes at a big performance expense and it would be much more effecient
to clear only the regions that we are drawing on. For the sake of

> keeping this tutorial on topic, we`ll leave it at clearing the whole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keeping this tutorial on topic, we'll leave it at clearing the whole
```

current transformation matrix of the canvas and `restore()` to it
when we are done drawing.

<figure>
{% Img src="image/T4FyVKpzu4WKF1kBNvXepbi08t52/73JKSfkcxMnLw661RnKA.png", alt="Translate", width="500", height="172" %}
<figcaption>This is the point from which we draw the page flip. The
original 0,0 point is in the top left of the image but by changing that,
via translate(x,y), we simplify the drawing logic.</figcaption>
</figure>

The `foldGradient` is what we will fill the shape of the folded paper with
to give it realistic highlights and shadows. We also add a very thin line
around the paper drawing so that the paper doesn't disappear when put
against light backgrounds.

All that remains now is drawing the shape of the folded paper using the
properties we defined above. The left and right sides of our paper is drawn
as straight lines and the top and bottom sides are curved to bring that bent
feeling of a folding paper across. The strength of this paper bend is
determined by the `verticalOutdent` value.

That's it! You've now got a fully functional page flip navigation in
place.

## Page Flip Demo

The page flip effect is all about communicating the right interactive

> feel so looking at images of it doesn`t exactly do it justice. Use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feel so looking at images of it doesn't exactly do it justice. 
```

> links below to play around with the final result!
> 
> [View the working example](https://www.html5rocks.com/static/demos/20things_pageflip/example/index.html)
> [Download the source code (75k .zip)](https://www.html5rocks.com/static/demos/20things_pageflip/20Things_PageFlip_Example.zip)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
